Original Content:
Corona (Spanish for "Crown") is a city in northwestern Riverside County, California, United States, directly bordering Orange and San Bernardino counties. Its current mayor is Jim Steiner. At the 2020 census, the city had a population of 157,136, up from 152,374 at the 2010 census. Corona is surrounded by Riverside to the east, Norco to the north and northeast, Yorba Linda to the northwest, Cleveland National Forest and the Santa Ana Mountains to the west, southwest, and south. Several unincorporated communities are along the rest of the city's borders. Downtown Corona is approximately 48 miles (77 km) southeast of Downtown Los Angeles and 95 miles (153 km) north-northwest of San Diego.

Corona, located along the western edge of Southern California's Inland Empire region, is known as the "Circle City" due to Grand Boulevard's 3 mi (4.8 km) circular layout. It is one of the most residential cities in the Inland Empire, but also has a large industrial portion on the northern half, being the headquarters of companies such as Fender Musical Instruments Corporation, Monster Beverage Corporation, and supercar manufacturer Saleen.

Corona is Spanish for crown or wreath. Originally called South Riverside, citizens wanted to distinguish their city from the larger city of Riverside to the north. When it came time to incorporate the city a number of different names were considered, but the name Corona was chosen to play upon a unique feature of the city, the one-mile diameter drive that circled the center of the town.[7][8]

Prior to the late eighteenth century, the area was primarily inhabited by the Tongva and Payómkawichum, who lived in a series of villages throughout the area. What is now Corona stood at the southeastern extent of Tovaangar, or the Tongva world, and at the northern edge of Payómkawichum territory.[9][10]

The primary settlement in the area was the village of Paxauxa, which was established along the banks of the Temescal Creek at about where Corona is situated today. The settlement was shared by both the Tongva and Payómkawichum people. Cooperation and marriage between the two villages was common.[11][12] High above the city of Corona, the village of Pamajam was also located in a small valley of the Santa Ana Mountains.[13][14]

The founding of Mission San Juan Capistrano in 1776 and Mission San Luis Rey in 1798 saw the introduction of Spanish soldiers and missionaries in the area. This resulted in villagers being brought to the mission to be baptized and as labor.[15]

Spanish influence increased in the area with the establishment of the San Antonio de Pala Asistencia in 1816. Two years following the construction of this mission outpost, the Temescal Valley's first European resident, Leandro Serrano, was given permission by the Spanish to use the area for cattle grazing. His first order was to kill the local bear and mountain lion population for the imported herds.[16]

After the secularization of the Spanish missions by the First Mexican Republic in 1833, the land under influence by the missions in Alta California was gradually granted to large landowners as ranches. In 1848, Californio governor Pio Pico issued this land to Bernardo Yorba, which included present-day city of Corona.[17][16]

Corona was founded at the height of the Southern California citrus boom in 1886, and is situated at the upper end of the Santa Ana River Canyon, a significant pass through the Santa Ana Mountains. The town of Corona was once the "Lemon Capital of the World". A museum there presents the lemon's former role in the local economy. The city's name means crown in Spanish due to the circular shape of a crown and the circular shape of Grand Blvd. The nickname of Corona is "The Circle City" from the unique layout of its streets, with a standard grid enclosed by the circular Grand Boulevard, 2.75 miles (4.43 km) in circumference.[18] The street layout was designed by Hiram Clay Kellogg, a civil engineer from Anaheim who was an influential figure in the early development of Orange County.

Rewritten Content:
The city of Corona was incorporated on May 11, 1896.

Here is a revised version:

Corona, California, is known as the "Circle City" because of its unique, circular road layout. Located in northwestern Riverside County, Corona is directly adjacent to Orange and San Bernardino counties and is approximately 48 miles southeast of Downtown Los Angeles and 95 miles north-northwest of San Diego.

Corona has a population of 157,136 (as of the 2020 census) and is known for its residential areas as well as its large industrial sector in the northern half. The city is home to the headquarters of companies such as Fender Musical Instruments Corporation, Monster Beverage Corporation, and supercar manufacturer Saleen.

Corona was originally called South Riverside, but was renamed to its current name in 1896 to distinguish it from the larger city of Riverside to the north. The name Corona means "crown" or "wreath" in Spanish, and was chosen to reflect the city's unique circular road layout.

Prior to the late eighteenth century, the area was primarily inhabited by the Tongva and Payómkawichum, who lived in a series of villages throughout the area. The primary settlement in the area was the village of Paxauxa, which was established along the banks of the Temescal Creek at about where Corona is situated today. The settlement was shared by both the Tongva and Payómkawichum people.

The founding of Mission San Juan Capistrano in 1776 and Mission San Luis Rey in 1798 saw the introduction of Spanish soldiers and missionaries in the area, which resulted in villagers being brought to the mission to be baptized and as labor. Spanish influence increased in the area with the establishment of the San Antonio de Pala Asistencia in 1816.

In 1848, Californio governor Pio Pico issued land to Bernardo Yorba, which included present-day city of Corona.

Corona was founded at the height of the Southern California citrus boom in 1886 and was once the "Lemon Capital of the World". A museum in the city presents the lemon's former role in the local economy. The city's circular road layout was designed by Hiram Clay Kellogg, a civil engineer from Anaheim.

The city of Corona was incorporated on May 11, 1896. Its current mayor is Jim Steiner.