Original Content:
"The Gates of Morning"

CHAPTER I

THE CANOE BUILDER

DICK standing on a ledge of coral cast his eyes to the South.

Behind him the breakers of the outer sea thundered and the spindrift scattered on the wind; before him stretched an ocean calm as a lake, infinite, blue, and flown about by the fishing gulls—the lagoon of Karolin.

Clipped by its forty-mile ring of coral this great pond was a sea in itself, a sea of storm in heavy winds, a lake of azure, in light airs—and it was his—he who had landed here only yesterday.

Women, children, youths, all the tribe to be seen busy along the beach in the blazing sun, fishing with nets, playing their games or working on the paraka patches, all were his people. His were the canoes drawn up on the sand and his the empty houses where the war canoes had once rested on their rollers.

Then as he cast his eyes from the lagoon to the canoe houses his brow contracted, and, turning his back to the lagoon he stood facing the breakers on the outer beach and the northern sea. Away there,  ​beyond  the sea line, invisible, lay Palm Tree, an island beautiful as a dream, yet swarming with devils.

Little Tari the son of Le Taioi the net maker, sitting on the coral close by, looked up at him. Tari knew little of life, but he knew that all the men of Karolin swept away by war had left the women and the boys and the children like himself defenceless and without a man or leader.

Then, yesterday, from the northern sea in a strange boat and with Katafa, the girl who had been blown to sea years ago when out fishing, this strange new figure had come, sent by the gods, so the women said, to be their chief and ruler.

Rewritten Content:
Dick did not think of this, but he knew that these people of Karolin were his people and that the island was his island.

"I'll build me a canoe," he said, "and I'll go to Palm Tree and I'll kill the devils and I'll bring Katafa back."

Tari looked up at him with shining eyes.

"I'll come with you," he said, "I'll come with you to Palm Tree and I'll kill the devils and I'll bring Katafa back."

"You are too young," said Dick, "but you can help me build the canoe."

So they went together to the canoe houses and Dick chose a tree from those that lay there, and, taking his axe, he set to work.

The tree was a miro, a tree of the forest, and it was long and straight and hard.

Tari watched him, and as he watched he thought of the war canoes that had once rested on the rollers, and he knew that this new canoe would be far better than the old ones, and that the stranger was indeed sent by the gods.

And Dick, as he worked, thought of the men of Karolin, and of the women and the children, and of Katafa, and he knew that he must build the best canoe he could, for the honour of Karolin and for the sake of Katafa.

And so the days went by, and the canoe grew, and the sun shone and the rain fell, and the sea broke and the fishing gulls flew about, and the women and the children and the youths brought him food and water and shelter, and Tari, the son of Le Taioi the net maker, worked with him, and they sang as they worked.

CHAPTER II

THE KING OF PALM TREE

Now it came to pass that while Dick the canoe builder was building his canoe in the canoe houses of Karolin, and while Tari, the son of Le Taioi the net maker, was working with him, a king was sitting in his palace in Palm Tree.

This king was a great king, and he had many warriors, and many slaves, and many women, and many treasures, and many islands.

He had conquered Palm Tree and had made it his own, and now he sat in his palace, and the slaves brought him food and drink, and the warriors stood about him, and the women sang to him.

And as he sat there he thought of the many islands he had conquered, and of the many men he had slain, and of the many treasures he had taken, and he knew that he was a great king.

And as he sat there he thought of the island of Karolin, and of the men who had once lived there, and of the war canoes that had once rested on the rollers, and he knew that if he could conquer Karolin he would be the greatest king of all.

And so he called to him his warriors, and he said to them:

"Go to Karolin, and bring me the treasures of Karolin, and the women of Karolin, and the slaves of Karolin, and the war canoes of Karolin, and the king of Karolin, and make me the greatest king of all."

And the warriors said:

"We will go to Karolin, and we will bring you the treasures of Karolin, and the women of Karolin, and the slaves of Karolin, and the war canoes of Karolin, and the king of Karolin, and make you the greatest king of all."

So the warriors went to Karolin, and they came to the beach, and they saw the women and the children and the youths working and playing and fishing, and they saw the empty houses where the war canoes had once rested on their rollers, and they knew that the men of Karolin had been swept away by war.

And they said to the women and the children and the youths:

"Where is the treasure of Karolin, and where are the women of Karolin, and where are the slaves of Karolin, and where are the war canoes of Karolin, and where is the king of Karolin?"

And the women and the children and the youths said:

"There is no treasure in Karolin, and there are no women in Karolin, and there are no slaves in Karolin, and there are no war canoes in Karolin, and there is no king in Karolin, for the men of Karolin have been swept away by war."

And the warriors said
